WIP: CASMCMS-8902: Describe the Scalable Boot Projection Service (SBPS) (#4684)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/boot_orchestration/Create_a_Session_Template_to_Boot_Compute_Nodes_with_SBPS.md

Reviewer: I would suggest adding a link to this new file here: https://github.com/Cray-HPE/docs-csm/blob/3d47675467131974012e90c336e2f9e52455a392/operations/README.md?plain=1#L103

Author: Added.

These are listed below, along with the appropriate values to use.

- `type`: Set to `s3`
- `path`: Set to `s3://<BUCKET_NAME>/<KEY_NAME>`
  - `<BUCKET_NAME>` is set to `boot-images`
  - `<KEY_NAME>` is set to the image ID that the [Image Management Service (IMS)](../../glossary.md#image-management-service-ims) created when it generated the boot artifacts.
- `etag`: Set to `<etag\>`

## Boot set `rootfs_provider` parameters

The Scalable Boot Projection Service (SBPS) is an optional provider for the `rootfs` on compute nodes.

For SBPS, the `rootfs_provider_passthrough` boot set parameter is customized according to the following format:

```text
rootfs_provider_passthrough=<transport>:<schema version>:<IQN Domain>:<DNS SRV record reference>:<client discovery timeout in seconds>
```

The following values need to be set in the boot set of the session template in order to make SBPS the `rootfs` provider:

- `"rootfs_provider":` Set to `"sbps"`
- To use the Node Management Network (NMN) for content projection,
  - `"rootfs_provide_passthrough"`: Set to `"sbps:v1:iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:_sbps-nmn._tcp.local:300"`
- To use the High Speed Network (HSN) for content projection,

>   - `"rootfs_provide_passthrough"`: Set to `"sbps:v1:iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:_sbps-hsn._tcp.local:300"`

Reviewer 2: This domain name will be based on the system domain name.

Author: I used an example using an HPE system domain name rather than the domain name from the IQN.

> Note that `iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi` is an example of the IQN domain. Provide an IQN domain specific to the customer.

Reviewer 2: This will be a fixed value for now.

Author: @jeremy-duckworth , are you saying that the fixed value _is_ 'iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi' or just that there will be a fixed value for the domain name? 
In this documentation, I am trying to give the sysadmins a clear understanding of what things are, but also of what they can and cannot just cut-and-paste into a BOS session template.

Reviewer 2: The fixed value is `iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi`, the worker nodes will show up in the style of `iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:ncn-w005`. I believe COS is using the xname for the initiator IDs (same IQN), but Kazuya can confirm.

Author: Okay, @jeremy-duckworth , queuing up the dumb questions.
1. Will the string `iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi` be a fixed string that _every_ site uses for its domain name?
Or will it be site-specific like `iqn.hi-im-nersc.csm.iscsi` or `iqn.hi-im-lanl.csm.iscsi`?

I think you were alluding to this in your first comment 'This domain name will be based on the system domain name.'

2. In your above example, you replaced `_sbps-hsn._tcp.local` with `ncn-w005`.  Was that your intent? 
'ncn-w005' contains none of the DNS SRV attributes except the symbolic name. It doesn't have the transport protocol or domain name.
* `_sbps-hsn` is the symbolic name of the service
* `_tcp` is the transport protocol
* `local` is the domain name for which the record is valid

Reviewer 2: 1 - fixed string. This should not be conflated with anything DNS related. 

2 - `ncn-w005` is the endpoint/node designation that forms a fully qualified iSCSI IQN.

Author: I was conflating it with DNS and the system domain name. I'm still unclear on the IQN domain versus a DNS system domain.

Note that `_sbps-hsn._tcp.local` can be used if it corresponds to the DNS SRV record. Otherwise, use the DNS SRV record.

The variables used in this parameter represent the following:

### `<transport>`

File system network transport. For example, `sbps` or `dvs`.

Set to `sbps` to use SBPS. Can be left as an empty string to use the default value `dvs`.

### `<schema version>`

The version of the SBPS schema. `v1` is the only supported version.

### `<IQN Domain>`

The domain name portion of the iSCSI Qualified Name (IQN).

For example, an IQN might look like this:

```text
iqn.2001-04.com.example:storage:diskarrays-sn-a8675309
```

In this example:

> * `iqn.2001-04.com.example` is the IQN domain.

Reviewer 2: Might help to make match the IQN examples for the targets they'll see on a CSM system, based on worker name. @ravikanth-nalla-hpe or @aasha-hpe  can provide examples.

Reviewer 2: Example SRV records:

```
_sbps-hsn._tcp.<system domain>
_sbps-nmn._tcp.<system domain>
```

Reviewer 3: > Might help to make match the IQN examples for the targets they'll see on a CSM system, based on worker name. @ravikanth-nalla-hpe or @aasha-hpe can provide examples.

Here are few IQN examples that we see on couple of target systems:
**Mug:**  iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:ncn-w002  <-------- ncn-w002 of Mug is configured with iSCSI
**Odin:**  iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:ncn-w005  <-------- ncn-w005 of Odin is configured with iSCSI
                 iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:ncn-w006 <-------- ncn-w006 of Odine is configured with iSCSI

# Create a Session Template to Boot Compute Nodes with Scalable Boot Projection Service (SBPS)

When [compute nodes](../../glossary.md#compute-node-cn) are booted, the [Scalable Boot Projection Service (SBPS)](../../glossary.md#scalable-boot-projection-service-sbps)

> projects the root file system \(`rootfs`\) over the network to the compute nodes.ø

Reviewer: Again, why the escaped parentheses?

> projects the root file system \(`rootfs`\) over the network to the compute nodes.ø

Reviewer: There's a stray "ø" character at the end of this line.

Author: Removed

This page covers the appropriate contents for a BOS session template in order to use SBPS.

- [Boot set `rootfs_provider` parameter](#boot-set-rootfs_provider-parameter)
- [Boot set `rootfs_provider_passthrough` parameters](#boot-set-rootfs_provider_passthrough-parameters)
  - [`<transport>`](#transport)
  - [`<schema version>`](#schema-version)
  - [`<IQN Domain>`](#iqn-domain)
  - [`<DNS SRV record reference>`](#dns-service-srv-record-reference)
  - [`<client discovery timeout in seconds>`](#client-discovery-timeout-in-seconds)
  - [`<ramroot>`](#ramroot)
  - [Example `rootfs_provider_passthrough`](#example-rootfs_provider_passthrough)

> - [`root=` kernel parameter](#root-kernel-parameter)

Reviewer: I like that you have a section here explaining how the `root` kernel command-line parameter gets constructed by BOS from the contents of the session template, but putting it in this list and at the same level as things like `rootfs_provider` and the "Boot set S3 parameters" is confusing because those are things that the user of BOS has to specify whereas the `root` Kernel command-line parameter gets generated by BOS from these other parameters.

Author: I moved this into and appendix that explicitly tells the user no action is required on their part.

- [Boot set S3 parameters](#boot-set-s3-parameters)
- [Example session template input file](#example-session-template-input-file)
- [Creating a BOS session using the new template](#creating-a-bos-session-using-the-new-template)

The Scalable Boot Projection Service (SBPS) is an optional provider for the `rootfs` on compute nodes.

## Boot set `rootfs_provider` parameter

The following value needs to be set in the boot set of the session template in order to make SBPS the `rootfs` provider:

- `"rootfs_provider":` Set to `"sbps"`

## Boot set `rootfs_provider_passthrough` parameters

For SBPS, the `rootfs_provider_passthrough` boot set parameter is customized according to the following format:

```text

> rootfs_provider_passthrough=<transport>:<schema version>:<IQN Domain>:<DNS SRV record reference>:<client discovery timeout in seconds>

Reviewer: the `<ramroot>` parameter is missing from this format

Author: Added.

```

The following values need to be set in the boot set of the session template in order to make SBPS the `rootfs` provider:

- `"rootfs_provider":` Set to `"sbps"`
- To use the Node Management Network (NMN) for content projection,

>   - `"rootfs_provide_passthrough"`: Set to `"sbps:v1:iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:_sbps-nmn._tcp.odin.hpc.amslabs.hpecorp.net:300"`

Reviewer: typo

```suggestion
  - `"rootfs_provider_passthrough"`: Set to `"sbps:v1:iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:_sbps-nmn._tcp.odin.hpc.amslabs.hpecorp.net:300"`
```

- To use the High Speed Network (HSN) for content projection,

>   - `"rootfs_provide_passthrough"`: Set to `"sbps:v1:iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:_sbps-hsn._tcp.odin.hpc.amslabs.hpecorp.net:300"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `"rootfs_provider_passthrough"`: Set to `"sbps:v1:iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:_sbps-hsn._tcp.odin.hpc.amslabs.hpecorp.net:300"`
```

Author: Changed.

Note that `iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi` is the IQN domain.

The variables used in this parameter represent the following:

### `<transport>`

File system network transport. For example, `sbps` or `dvs`.

> Set to `sbps` to use SBPS. Can be left as an empty string to use the default value `dvs`.

Reviewer: I'm a little confused about when I'd use `dvs` here? If I specify `dvs` is that not using the SBPS? If so, why is that in this document about creating a session template to boot computes with SBPS?

Author: I removed that line about DVS.

The version of the SBPS schema. `v1` is the only supported version.

### `<IQN Domain>`

The domain name portion of the iSCSI Qualified Name (IQN).

For example, an IQN might look like this:

```text
iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:ncn-w002
```

In this example:

- `iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi` is the IQN domain.
- `ncn-w002` is a unique identifier for the storage device.

The IQN Domain helps in ensuring unique identification of iSCSI targets within a given namespace, allowing for proper routing and management of storage resources over the network

For SBPS, only the domain portion of the IQN needs to be supplied, not the entire IQN.

### `<DNS Service (SRV) record reference>`

A DNS SRV (Service) record is a type of Domain Name System (DNS) resource record used to specify information about services offered by a particular domain.

Here's how a DNS SRV record is structured:

- Service: Specifies the symbolic name of the service.
- Protocol: Specifies the transport protocol of the service, such as TCP or UDP.
- Name: The domain name for which this record is valid.
- Other elements were omitted for clarity and brevity.

For example, DNS SRV record might look like this:

```text

> _sbps-hsn._tcp.odin.hpc.amslabs.hpecorp.net

Reviewer 2: Nit, use generic system site domains, don't use internal HPE DNS spaces.

Author: @jeremy-duckworth , can you give me an example of a generic system site domain, please?

Reviewer 2: Looking quickly through documentation, it appears the examples are not consistent. Here is perhaps one of the better, long standing but still not ideal, examples: 

https://github.com/Cray-HPE/docs-csm/blob/b29a340f0808f3dfd0d85e846d37ae0949977429/operations/network/dns/PowerDNS_migration.md#examples

```

In this example,

- `_sbps-hsn` is the symbolic name of the service
- `_tcp` is the transport protocol
- `odin.hpc.amslabs.hpecorp.net` is the domain name for which the record is valid. This is the system domain.

### `<client discovery timeout in seconds>`

The timeout, in seconds, for attempting to mount the `netroot` via SBPS.

Can be left as an empty string to use the default value of 300 seconds.

> ### `<ramroot>`

Reviewer: If this is really supported for a `rootfs_provider_passthrough` value using SBPS, then it's missing from the format of this value shown above.

Author: Added it per the above comment where it noted as missing.

Indicates that the specified S3 path should be copied to RAM \(`tmpfs`\) and mounted locally instead of persisting as a remote file system mount.

Can be left empty. Any string except `"0"` is interpreted as true.

### Example `rootfs_provider_passthrough`

```text
rootfs_provider_passthrough=sbps:v1:iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:_sbps-hsn._tcp.odin.hpc.amslabs.hpecorp.net:300
```

## `root=` kernel parameter

BOS will construct the `root=` kernel parameter, which will be used by the node when it boots, based on the `rootfs_provider` and `rootfs_provider_passthrough` values.

> For SBPS, BOS supplies a protocol `sbps-s3`, the S3 path to the `rootfs`, and the `etag` value \(if it exists\).

Reviewer: Another instance of escaped parens

The rest of the parameters are supplied from the `rootfs_provider_passthrough` values as specified above.

BOS will construct it in the following format:

```text
root=sbps-s3:s3-path:<etag>:<transport>:<schema version>:<IQN Domain>:<DNS SRV record reference>:<client discovery timeout in seconds>:<ramroot>
```

### Example kernel parameter

```text

> root=sbps-s3:s3://boot-images/4fab0408-0bfe-4668-b957-964f8ff0e4e9/rootfs:b6ea7a2314d54dead0c94223863b3488-1977:sbps:v1:iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:_sbps-hsn._tcp.odin.hpc.amslabs.hpecorp.net:30

Reviewer: Should the client discovery timeout be 300 instead of 30 in this example for consistency with the default value mentioned above?

Reviewer 2: Checked with COS, 30s is a fine default.

Author: Changed.

```

## Boot set S3 parameters

The session template boot set contains several [Simple Storage Service (S3)](../../glossary.md#simple-storage-service-s3) parameters.
These are listed below, along with the appropriate values to use.

- `type`: Set to `s3`
- `path`: Set to `s3://<BUCKET_NAME>/<KEY_NAME>/manifest.json`
  - `<BUCKET_NAME>` is set to `boot-images`
  - `<KEY_NAME>` is set to the image ID that the [Image Management Service (IMS)](../../glossary.md#image-management-service-ims) created when it generated the boot artifacts.

> - `etag`: is set to `<etag\>` of the manifest.json file that [Image Management Service (IMS)](../../glossary.md#image-management-service-ims) created when it generated the boot artifacts.

Reviewer: Why the weird formatting around `<etag\>` here again?

Author: No idea. Changed.

  - [Example `rootfs_provider_passthrough`](#example-rootfs_provider_passthrough)
- [Boot set S3 parameters](#boot-set-s3-parameters)
- [Example session template input file](#example-session-template-input-file)
- [Creating a BOS session using the new template](#creating-a-bos-session-using-the-new-template)
- [Appendix: `root=` kernel parameter](#appendix-root-kernel-parameter)

The Scalable Boot Projection Service (SBPS) is an optional provider for the `rootfs` on compute nodes.

## Boot set `rootfs_provider` parameter

The following value needs to be set in the boot set of the session template in order to make SBPS the `rootfs` provider:

- `"rootfs_provider":` Set to `"sbps"`

## Boot set `rootfs_provider_passthrough` parameters

For SBPS, the `rootfs_provider_passthrough` boot set parameter is customized according to the following format:

```text
rootfs_provider_passthrough=<transport>:<schema version>:<IQN Domain>:<DNS SRV record reference>:<client discovery timeout in seconds>:<ramroot>
```

The following values need to be set in the boot set of the session template in order to make SBPS the `rootfs` provider:

- `"rootfs_provider":` Set to `"sbps"`

> - To use the Node Management Network (NMN) for content projection,

Reviewer 2: Please update to reflect the DNS domain needs to be updated for the SRV record reference based on the system DNS domain.

Reviewer 2: As you cover this later, perhaps adding a 'for example' qualifier here would suffice.

- [Boot set `rootfs_provider` parameter](#boot-set-rootfs_provider-parameter)
- [Boot set `rootfs_provider_passthrough` parameters](#boot-set-rootfs_provider_passthrough-parameters)
    - [`<transport>`](#transport)
    - [`<schema version>`](#schema-version)
    - [`<IQN Domain>`](#iqn-domain)
    - [`<DNS SRV record reference>`](#dns-service-srv-record-reference)
    - [`<client discovery timeout in seconds>`](#client-discovery-timeout-in-seconds)
    - [`<ramroot>`](#ramroot)
    - [Example `rootfs_provider_passthrough`](#example-rootfs_provider_passthrough)
- [Boot set S3 parameters](#boot-set-s3-parameters)
- [Example session template input file](#example-session-template-input-file)
- [Creating a BOS session using the new template](#creating-a-bos-session-using-the-new-template)
- [Appendix: `root=` kernel parameter](#appendix-root-kernel-parameter)

The Scalable Boot Projection Service (SBPS) is an optional provider for the `rootfs` on compute nodes.

## Boot set `rootfs_provider` parameter

The following value needs to be set in the boot set of the session template in order to make SBPS the `rootfs` provider:

> - `"rootfs_provider":` Set to `"sbps"`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`"rootfs_provider":` Set to `"sbps"`
```

## Boot set `rootfs_provider_passthrough` parameters

For SBPS, the `rootfs_provider_passthrough` boot set parameter is customized according to the following format:

```text
rootfs_provider_passthrough=<transport>:<schema version>:<IQN Domain>:<DNS SRV record>:<client discovery timeout in seconds>:<ramroot>
```

The following values need to be set in the boot set of the session template in order to make SBPS the `rootfs` provider.
The DNS SRV record should contain the system's DNS domain.

> Note, in this example, the `system-name` is `my-system` and the site domain name is `my-site-domain.net`. These need to be

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In this example, the `system-name` is `my-system` and the site domain name is `my-site-domain.net`. These need to be
```

replaced with the system's _actual_ system name and site DNS Domain.

- `"rootfs_provider":` Set to `"sbps"`
- To use the Node Management Network (NMN) for content projection,
    - `"rootfs_provider_passthrough"`: Set to `"sbps:v1:iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:_sbps-nmn._tcp.my-system.my-site-domain.net:300"`
- To use the High Speed Network (HSN) for content projection,
    - `"rootfs_provider_passthrough"`: Set to `"sbps:v1:iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:_sbps-hsn._tcp.my-system.my-site-domain.net:300"`

Note that `iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi` is the IQN domain.

The variables used in this parameter represent the following:

### `<transport>`

File system network transport. For example, `sbps` or `dvs`.

Set to `sbps` to use SBPS.

### `<schema version>`

The version of the SBPS schema. `v1` is the only supported version.

### `<IQN Domain>`

The domain name portion of the iSCSI Qualified Name (IQN).

For example, an IQN might look like this:

```text
iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:ncn-w002
```

In this example:

- `iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi` is the IQN domain.
- `ncn-w002` is a unique identifier for the storage device.

> The IQN Domain helps in ensuring unique identification of iSCSI targets within a given namespace, allowing for proper routing and management of storage resources over the network

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The IQN domain helps in ensuring unique identification of iSCSI targets within a given namespace, allowing for proper routing and management of storage resources over the network
```

For SBPS, only the domain portion of the IQN needs to be supplied, not the entire IQN.

### `<DNS Service (SRV) record reference>`

A DNS SRV (Service) record is a type of Domain Name System (DNS) resource record used to specify information about services offered by a particular domain.

> Here's how a DNS SRV record is structured:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A DNS SRV record is structured as follows:
```

- Service: Specifies the symbolic name of the service.
- Protocol: Specifies the transport protocol of the service, such as TCP or UDP.
- Name: The domain name for which this record is valid.
- Other elements were omitted for clarity and brevity.

For example, DNS SRV record might look like this:

```text
_sbps-hsn._tcp.my-system.my-site-domain.net
```

> In this example,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following is an explanation of the values used in this example:
```

> - `_sbps-hsn` is the symbolic name of the service

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `_sbps-hsn` is the symbolic name of the service.
```

> - `_tcp` is the transport protocol

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `_tcp` is the transport protocol.
```

- `"rootfs_provider":` Set to `"sbps"`
- To use the Node Management Network (NMN) for content projection,

>   - `"rootfs_provide_passthrough"`: Set to `"sbps:v1:iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:_sbps-nmn._tcp.iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi:300"`

Reviewer 2: Using the format `sbps:<schema version>:<IQN Domain>:<DNS SRV record reference>:<client discovery timeout in seconds>`, delimited by the colon `:` --

The first two fields are good. The 3rd field should be set to `iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi` and is correct as well in this example. Note that the 3rd field is not designed in this case to be a valid DNS domain name, nor is it strictly required to by https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3721#section-1.1. 

The 4th field, however, needs to be adjusted. It should be `_spbs-nmn._tcp.` or `_sbps-hsn._tcp.` followed by the installed system's domain name. This reference DOES have to be a valid SRV record reference that exists in DNS.

Author: I think my confusion stemmed from not understanding the difference between an IQN domain name and a system domain name. They both contain the phrase 'domain name', and I thought they were the same.

System domain name example: odin.hpc.amslabs.hpecorp.net
IQN domain name example: iqn.2023-06.csm.iscsi

I will go through the document again with this understanding in place.
However, I could still use edification. What contexts are these 'domain names' in? Are they in the same context? Is it all networking? I don't understand.
